---
name: Shinpei Kato Managing GPUs as First-Class Operating System Resources
location: LANL - Access Grid Room and UCSC - E2 586
date:   2011-11-07-11 10:00:00 -0800
---
Seminar Telecast from UCSC to LANL

Managing GPUs as First-Class Operating System Resources
by Shinpei Kato, Visiting Scientist, UCSC

[ABSTRACT] The graphics processing unit (GPU) is becoming one of the most
powerful platforms to support high-performance computing. Due to recent advances
in programming support for general-purpose computation on GPUs, also known as
GPGPU, GPUs are now used in not only graphics but also general compute domains.
This talk presents Gdev, a new approach to GPU resource management in operating
systems. Gdev manages GPUs as first-class operating system resources so that
GPU-accelerated applications can be provided with fine-grained prioritization
and isolation in multi-tasking environments. Gdev also provides a unified
application programming interface for operating systems and user-space programs.
This unified interface enables operating systems to launch GPU code directly,
while user-space programs can also launch the same GPU code through system calls,
such as "ioctl", or user-space Gdev runtime. We believe that Gdev will broaden
a class of applications that benefit from GPUs and enhance the reliability of
GPU computing.

[BIO] Shinpei Kato is a Visiting Assistant Research Computer Scientist in the
Department of Computer Science at University of California, Santa Cruz. He
received his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees from Keio University in 2004, 2006,
and 2008 respectively. He has also worked at The University of Tokyo and
Carnegie Mellon University from 2009 to 2011 as a postdoctoral scientist. His
research interests include, real-time systems, operating systems, and parallel
and distributed systems. More information is available at his website
(http://users.soe.ucsc.edu/~shinpei).
